# mlmr2
R^2 function in MLM/LGM
r2lmer, r2lme, and r2lmeRmat are functions to compute the R2 statistic in LGMs/MLM. These three functions are used along with model estimation functions in R. 

To acquire the R2, researchers need to estimate the longitudinal growth model by either lmer function from lme4 package or lme function from nlme package before using the R2 computation functions. r2lmer and r2lme are functions used for computing R2 incorporate constant level-1 residual variance with priorly applied model estimation functions lmer and lme, respectively. r2lmeRmat is used for computing weighted and unweighted R2s incorporate different level-1 residual variance structures with model estimation function lme. The input of the three functions are straightforward which are: a) model specification that used in the prior model estimation function, b) the variables that corresponding to interested fixed effect, and c) the variables that corresponding to interested random effect. More details are shown in examples. The output of r2lmer and r2lme functions give the variance partitioning and R2 for selected effects. The function r2lmeRmat output the number of observations at each time point, the variance partitioning with and without weights applied, and the R2 for selected effects with and without weights applied. Note that, if homogeneous variance is specified across time (i.e., single constant variance, CS, and AR1), there is no output of weighted variance partitioning and weighted R2.

